#C for Everyone: C2

### User Defined types

Enumeration:
- Nateive types: Int, float, char
- Usefull for different data but not all data
- eg: days of the week;

- Type save languages: Make debugging easier
- But type safety is "weak" in C- because of type limits and many conversions 

### Preprocessors

- Macros, libraries, Constants, Define 
- Preprocessors are programs that process our source code before compilation. There are a number of steps
involved between writing a program and executing a program C/C++.
- C source code -> Are the processors directives -(No)-> Compiler -(objective code)->Linker-> Exe
                                                 -(yes)-> Pre-processor peform action

- Main 4 types:
1. Macros: Macros are pieces of code in a program that is given some name.(#define LIMIT 5)
2. File inclusion: Tells the compiler to include a file in the source code program. (#include file_name)
3. Conditional Compilation: Directives are a type of directive that helps to compile a specific portion 
of the program or to skip the compilation of some specific part of the program based on some conditions.
#ifdef macro_name
    statement 1
    .
    .
    .
#endif 
4. Other directives:
#undef directive: Is used to undefine an existing macro. #undef LIMIT

#pragma directive: Is a special purpose directive and is used to turn on or off some features. #pragma startup or #pragma exit. 

#pragma warn: Is used to hide the warning message which is displayed during compilation. 

### Assertions 

- Assertions are statements used to test assumptions made by programmers. For example, we may use assertion to check if the pointer returned by malloc() is NULL or not. 
```
void assert(int expression)
```

### Structures

- A structure is a key word user defined data type in C/C++. A structure creates a data type that can be used to group items of possibly different types into a single type. 
```
    struct address{
        char name[50];
        char street[100];
        char city[50];
        char state[20];
        int pin; 
    }
```

### Stack

- Stack is a linear data structure wich follows a particular order in which the operations are performed. The order may be LIFO or FILO. 

### Linked List

- A linked list is a linear data structure, in which the elements are not stored at contiguous memory locations. The elements in a linked list are linked using pointers.

- |Head|Next|->|B|Next|->Null

- Fundamental operations: Count, Concat, Insert, Delete. 

### Queue

- A queue is defined as a linear data structure that is open at both ends and the operations are performed in FIFO order. We define a queue to be a list in which all additions to the list are made at one end, and all deletions from the list are made at the other end. The element which is first pushed into the order, the operation is frst performed on that. 
- Queue can handle multiple data, we can access both ends, they are fast and flexible. 

### Binary tree

- Binary tree is defined as a tree data structure with at most 2 children. Since each element in a binary tree can have only 2 children, we typically name them the left and right child. 

- Binary tree is represented by a pointer to the top most node of the tree. If the tree is empty, than the value of the root is NULL. 

- Binary tree node contains the following parts: Data, Pointer to the left child, Pointer to the right child. 

### File I/O

- Creation of a new file: fopen("a", "a+", "w", "w+")
- Opening an existing file(fopen)
- Reading from file(fscanf or fgets)
- Writing to a file(fprintf or fputs)
- Moving to a specific location in a file (fseek, rewind)
- Closigina a file (fclose)

``` 
FILE *filePointer;

filePointer = fopen("filename.txt", "r");
fscanf(filePointer, "%s %s %s %d", str1, str2, str3, &year);
```

